GitHub Copilot /
How-tos /
Copilot on GitHub /
Customize Copilot /
Customize cloud agent /
Test custom agents
Testing and releasing custom agents in your organization or enterprise
Ensure your custom agents are performant and compliant before releasing them to your company.
Copy as Markdown
In this article
Introduction
Prerequisites
1. Create your test custom agent
2. Test your custom agent
3. Release your custom agent
Next steps
Note
Copilot custom agents are in public preview and subject to change.
Introduction
Before you release or update a custom agent in your organization or enterprise, you can test the agent privately to ensure it meets your standards. Once you are satisfied, you can then easily change the location of your agent profile to make it available across your company.
Prerequisites
Before you can test a custom agent, you need to set up your organization or enterprise for custom agents. See Preparing to use custom agents in your organization or Preparing to use custom agents in your enterprise .
1. Create your test custom agent
In your organization or enterprise's .github-private
repository, create a new directory called .github/agents
. Agents stored in this directory are only available to members of your organization or enterprise who have access to the .github-private
repository, and can only be used when they start a task within that repository.
In your .github/agents
directory, create the agent profile for your test agent. You can create a net-new profile or duplicate an existing profile to test potential updates. For information on configuring an agent profile, see Creating custom agents for Copilot cloud agent .
Merge your test agent profile into the default branch of your repository.
2. Test your custom agent
Go to the agents tab at https://github.com/copilot/agents .
Using the dropdown menu in the prompt box, select your .github-private
repository.
Select , then click your test agent.
To test your custom agent, send Copilot a prompt.
In the "Recent sessions" section, click your session to see detailed information about your results.
Continue making changes and testing your custom agent as needed until you are satisfied with its performance.
3. Release your custom agent
In your .github-private
repository, move your agent profile from the .github/agents
directory into the agents
directory.
Merge your changes into the default branch. Your custom agent is now available to all users in your organization or enterprise.
Next steps
To monitor the usage of custom agents in your organization, filter your organization's audit log by actor:Copilot
. See Reviewing the audit log for your organization .
To monitor the usage of custom agents in your enterprise, see Monitoring agentic activity in your enterprise .